\part*{Executive Summary}

Assignments for software engineering classes have particular characteristics
that make them harder to grade by professors and teaching assistants. In the
majority of cases, they must be handed in electronically. The grader then runs
the code with some specific input to verify the correctness of the code.
Students might choose to use different programming languages, different IDEs,
and different tests, making it even more difficult for grading. Additionally,
many students write code in different styles, which makes it harder to read for
a person that is used to a particular coding style. Furthermore, communication
between the grader and the student is very poor, often relying in slow e-mail
responses.  All of this makes grading Software assignments an enduring task.

Our product is being designed to eliminate the difficulties that come with
grading software assignments. It is a web-based application that will
host repositories that contain students' code. When a student uploads code
for an assignment, the system notifies the grader and automatically runs test
cases that were specified by the grader. The result of the test cases is then
sent to the grader. The grader also has the option to add line-by-line comments
to the student's code, and run linter programs to verify code quality and
style. Finally, the grader will have the option to assign a grade to the
student.

The deliverables for this project will be a fully hosted web application. Our
goal with this application is to greatly reduce the time that it takes for
professors to grade assignments, and help communication between students and
graders. The web application will also promote good coding practices by giving
feedback to the students when they submit their code.

The development milestones for this project will be the finalization of the
front end web client, a built RESTful back end server, the completion of the
accounts and repositories manager and the culmination of the testing and quality
framework. Our end goal is to integrate all of these components and finally
deploy our service in the cloud.

% ROI = return of investment.

The total cost for the project will be \$50,757.26 of development costs and
additional scalable cost for hosting infrastructure in Amazon Web Services EC2.
Expected profitability for this product is very high. At \$10,000 per
educational institution license, our return of investment (ROI) will be nearly
balanced to \$0 at 5 licenses sold, but we expect to sell at least 25
educational licenses.
