\autsection{Problem Statement}{Samuel Rodr√≠guez} %The problem explained

%TODO Anadir numeros (para concretizar las mejoras de tiempo que tiene el
% proyecto).

Most educational institutions manually grade programming (code) assignments
completed by students. Manual evaluation of code is inefficient: it takes time
and is prone to bad evaluations due to the substantial amount of different ways
a program can be written. This leads to only evaluate the program's results,
i.e. its output, based on an specific input. However such method of evaluation
can be maliciously exploited and does not measure code quality at all. Missing
the evaluation of such areas can lead professors to pass student with poor
coding performance. Currently, most professors and teaching assistants evaluate
output by manually importing code into a workstation, most probably the grader's
own personal machine, and then manually executing the program through some test
cases. This is also highly insecure because the code is not properly
sandboxed \footnote{In computer security, a sandbox is a security mechanism for
separating running programs. It is often used to execute untested code, or
untrusted programs.}. The code could be malicious and cause damage to the
running workstation or even worse get a hold of sensitive data.

% Quotes from TAs  

Zach Cross, a Teacher Assistant (TA) from the University of North Carolina,
Chapel Hill comments when he is asked if he has a grading tool for students
code: \begin{quote} "Nothing well integrated and highly functional, mostly hacky
bash/python scripts..." \end{quote} Moreover, he comments on the current system
his institution uses for grading: \begin{quote} "We don't have a clean web
interface or anything and they aren't functional in the sense that they break
for most assignments as soon as errors occur e.g. they can grade the 100\%'s but
not much else." \end{quote}

%Here we hit stakeholders, how the project solves the problem and the scope of
%such solution

The proposed solution makes the grading of coding assignment more efficient by
providing an easy to use web based application that handles submissions and
automatic grading of coding assignments. It not only grades based on the
program's output but also on code quality and performance. This solves the
problem of inaccurate grading by taking into account other factors that measure
a student's academic achievements. Our solution tackles each of the problems
specified and also adds extra value by integrating features that can help
increase the student's programming skills, e.g. it provides helpful feedback
that promotes better coding practices on the student's submitted code. This
product will directly benefit the Professors, Teacher Assistants (TAs) and the
students. It will also indirectly benefit the educational institution that uses
it. The project will create a solution that is secure, reliable, and easy to
use.
